README.md, before:

# Calibron 12 solver

This is a JavaScript / node.js tool that finds the solution to the [Calibron 12](http://www.creativecrafthouse.com/index.php?main_page=product_info&products_id=844) puzzle. The internet also has a great overview of the [origins of the puzzle](http://www.pavelspuzzles.com/2010/08/the_calibron_12block_puzzle.html) and [some ways people have approached solving it](http://mypuzzlecollection.blogspot.com/2012/06/calibron-12.html).

To run this, run `node puzzle.js`.

This is a brute-force solver, which runs through all possible permutations of the piece-ordering (12! = 479,001,600) and each rotation of each piece (2^12 = 4096). As the tool runs, it will report progress (and time remaining until all permutations are exhausted) based on processing each permutation (including all its rotations). It is pretty well optimized to only do as much work as is necessary to solve the problem, via e.g. pruning.

Also, given this initial configuration and the algorithm at the time of this writing, it solves it after ~50M permutations, or about 10% of the total search space, so it beats the odds by a good bit.

It takes about 5 minutes on a 2.13GHz Core 2 Duo (i.e. a Macbook Air from a few years ago). It will take about 10x that long on the EC2 free tier (based on hypervisor throttling; it could be much faster than that with 100% available CPU).

Note that it is single-threaded, because it's node.js.

I'm not going to publish the solution, but I'll send it to anyone who asks for it.

To run the tests:

    npm install
    node_modules/.bin/mocha

Commit message:

Near-total reimplementation for massive performance gain
(Hurrah for automated tests!)

Also fixed up some line-ending issues, which makes the diffs worse than
they really are.

README.md, after:

# Calibron 12 solver

This is a JavaScript / node.js tool that finds the solution to the [Calibron 12](http://www.creativecrafthouse.com/index.php?main_page=product_info&products_id=844) puzzle. The internet also has a great overview of the [origins of the puzzle](http://www.pavelspuzzles.com/2010/08/the_calibron_12block_puzzle.html) and [some ways people have approached solving it](http://mypuzzlecollection.blogspot.com/2012/06/calibron-12.html).

To run this, run `node puzzle.js`.

This is a brute-force solver that simply searches for a solution via iteration, but it does it very efficiently. Even though there are 12! (479,001,600) permutations possible, this tool can find the solution in under a second on a 2.13GHz Core 2 Duo (and it's single-threaded JavaScript!). It can find all variations of the solution (i.e. rotations and swaps) (i.e. evaluate the entire search space) in 48 seconds.

I'm not going to publish the solution, but I'll send it to anyone who asks for it.

To run the tests:

    npm install
    node_modules/.bin/mocha
